The single most reason why your reels or
short-form videos don't perform are bad hooks,
and I kid you not, fixing and understanding
your hook game will get you views, lots
of them.
So, recently, thousands of creators applied to get
their hooks analyzed by me, and most of
them make these simple mistakes that crush retention,
make people swipe away before they even know
what's up, and as a result of that,
make the algorithm hate you.
So, today, I'll pick three creators and fix
their hooks with some tricks and strategies that
have helped my clients gain millions of views,
and that you can actually instantly implement yourself
as well.
All right, so the first issue is probably
one of the biggest problems I see with
hooks, and it's this.
Think of people swiping through their reels feed
as being on autopilot, and a lot of
creator gurus talk about this, but they never
really explain the reason why and how to
deal with this.
So, when people swipe, they basically have this
automated muscle memory at this point to keep
swiping until something hits their brain receptors, where
the brain goes, hmm, that is interesting.
And ideally, I've actually done lots of research
on that.
A lot of people recently actually swipe, swipe,
swipe, and then it takes the brain a
little longer to kind of process it, and
then they swipe back again, and this seems
to be like a big major trigger indicator
for the algorithm at this point.
And because of all of that, this process
happens so fast that you need to carefully
construct your hooks to basically hit those triggers
as fast and as best as possible to
get people from your target audience to basically
do that.
Stop and think and be like, hmm.
So, essentially what you want to do at
all times is you want to open loops
and don't close them as long as possible,
basically keeping them tangling at all times.
And when you do close the loop, you
want to open another one.
This is essentially what we can see clearly
here with our first creator, Max.
Malgo, Max.
Let's just call her Max.
So, let's just take a look at this
video right here.
Things I don't do being lean over 40.
So, based on the cover, sounds interesting, but
let's take a look first.
Okay.
So, at this point, we're already past the
hook.
And here's the thing.
People at this point don't care.
People don't even know what the context of
the video is.
And this is how you need to think
when especially crafting your hooks.
People sit, they swipe on autopilot, and then
they see this frame starting with this.
And somebody in the kitchen saying, I definitely
don't cut out carbs.
I'm like, okay, cool.
But like, why?
And why should you cut out carbs?
I don't get the context, right?
It's like going to a hardware store and
somebody comes up to you and is like,
I never pull out.
And you're like, huh, what?
But he's like, yeah, I mean, the screws
obviously halfway through a project.
I always finish what I start.
You already notice here, there's actually a very
fine line from being borderline criminal and getting
people's scroll swapping attention, right?
And the fix to that whole thing is
simply adding context as easy as that.
So, the first thing I would do here
is slap that context right at the top
of the screen.
Let's just do this together.
So, let's slap on the safe zone.
The first thing you can actually see already
from the first sort of frame here, not
really the actual first frame, but the hook
is that this sling right here is actually
overlapping with the comment box.
You instantly see it's just way too big
and honestly, it doesn't look good.
So, the first thing I want to do
here is literally remove the caption just to
show you how much cleaner that is.
So, we're just going to hit the generative
fill.
So, boom, looks pretty, looks pretty good actually.
Looks a lot cleaner.
Captions usually can be a lot smaller, but
let's not even get into that.
The second thing is, like I said, adding
context to this whole thing.
And by adding context, I wouldn't just say
like the cover image of this video says,
things I don't do being lean over 40.
I mean, it's not bad, but I try
to create even more of a curiosity gap
with this whole thing to basically force people
to watch even further.
Because suddenly they have this whole open loop
in their head and they're like, okay, now
I need to watch further.
To kind of create that and be able
to craft that, you need to understand your
target audience in an actual way, right?
And in that case, the content of the
reel itself, if we watch the whole video,
is a gold mine.
Because basically she says, I'm lean over 40,
but I definitely do eat carbs.
And that in and itself challenges a common
belief, one of the strongest forms of creating
hooks, right?
So, remember that.
In this case, just to make it a
little shorter and a little snappier, I'd say
lean at 45 and I eat carbs every
day or something like this.
So, let's just, you know, I'll just do
it here right in front of you so
you can see, because, you know, the second
part of this whole thing is actually making
this look better, but let's get into that.
And I eat carbs every day.
Okay.
So, obviously we're not going to make this
work.
Carbs every day.
And if we have here a safe zone,
we can already see it needs to be
smaller, way smaller than you might think.
Also, I'm going to play around with this.
I mean, it doesn't look bad.
Then you can make it a little bigger.
Eat carbs every day.
Make this a little there.
And you know, one thing you can instantly
see right there is that the way this
whole shot is framed, and it's actually a
big part of why people actually stop scrolling
is that it basically overlaps with this part
right here.
And there's just no way, there's basically clutter.
This one is clearly a kitchen.
This is a person.
This one is safe zone, safe space to
put your text, but this is virtually unusable.
So, you know, there's almost no way of
making this look good.
One thing you could do at all times
is just slapping some background thing right there.
As we can see, it looks a little
too big, so make it a little smaller.
I eat carbs every day, right?
Already not that bad, to be honest, if
you ask me.
A few things you could play around with,
just a few extra lessons right here for
you guys, is that now you can play
with font, weight, for example, and I eat,
you put this a little smaller, like medium,
and carbs every day, also like medium, and
suddenly it's just way easier for the eye,
basically, you know, as you can see right
here.
So you kind of read this.
I actually like it quite a lot, right?
But just to kind of make you understand
that, yeah, the hook is cool.
The spoken hook is cool.
It opens up some sort of curiosity gap
with what she says and what she has
here.
You know, this challenge is a common belief,
but all of this is still pretty off.
So let's actually try to fix that.
And what I'm going to do is I'll
pull this picture into Chatubity and actually try
to create a nice looking frame to just
prove the point for you right here.
Create a real screenshot where you put her
into the frame.
Nice lighting, natural, and a kitchen with a
big bowl of unhealthy carbs in the bottom
half of the screen.
I wrote this because I want to create
even more sort of a contrast because, you
know, curiosity gaps and stuff like this.
Scroll, stopping visual, hook real, aspect ratio, 9
by 16.
Let's just see what it will come up
with.
All right, so awesome.
This actually looks very close.
Man, this is just insane.
So let's just take this one.
Just to prove a point, let me just
put this right here.
It kind of overlaps, so I'm going to
flip the colors.
A very easy way.
Black and white, white on black.
It's all the same.
You know, if we overlay this, still pretty
good.
And you can just see basically the difference,
right?
Of a shot like this and a shot
like this.
Especially if you have some nasty carbs right
there, maybe make them even grazier, more unhealthy.
And suddenly people are going to have a
reason to stick around and be like, really?
What's she doing?
How does she do it?
I love noodles.
Right.
Next one, Stefan from Slovakia.
His problem is actually getting reached and I
can actually instantly see why.
So let's go step by step right here.
So first of all, the first thing, the
first impression that I have is amazing, great
pictures, especially these ones.
And you can understand what's going on.
Carousels are always better than actual pictures, but
here's the thing.
Even with carousels, you need, you need a
hook in some form.
In this case, it's really, there's no hook.
There's just a picture, you know, and just
a different version of the same picture.
Now to kind of come back to the
elements of every hook needs to contain is
first of all, a, you know, like a
setup of something that makes people in your
target audience actually care and ideally plants some
sort of picture in hindsight.
And that gives them a reason to stick
around because they want that question to be
answered at some point, because that's exactly what
they're interested in and something that they ideally
identify with.
So with that being said, the profile that
you have also has to sort of pass
this.
It's exactly what I'm looking for.
It's what I, what's interesting for me, sort
of test.
And that one is totally off here because
this is the first part of the profile,
by the way, you're from Slovakia and this
is Bratislava.
I hang out there quite, quite a lot.
Actually, most people who find you through reels
actually come to this feed.
And if you take a look here, that
is totally off, right?
There's a big mismatch between the photo feed
and actually the reels feed.
And here there's basically great pics, but no
hooks at all.
And here's actually bad reels.
If you ask me, if we just take
a look at this one right here, honestly,
pretty bad reels, even though it's kind of
funny.
Very, very bad reels, to be honest, and
bad hooks, right?
And that instantly takes away all the credibility
that you have.
So let's take a look at this one.
Who can relate?
Okay.
Let's mute this here, but basically talk about
the hook.
Who can relate?
And then this first frame right here, it
looks pretty bland, right?
What is the need?
Ask yourself, what is the need you fulfill
for your target audience with this?
What is the question that you want to
plant in people's head?
Who can relate is not a strong question
because I'm like, I don't know what this
even is about, so I'm gone, right?
So to me, this kind of looks like
it's trying to farm views, especially with this
twist at the end there, but it's not
really serving a purpose, not really talking to
your actual target audience, which is, I guess,
people who are into your photography, right?
And the thing is, especially about photography accounts
on Instagram, seeing as this was the first
big platform for photographers, things have changed quite
a bit, right?
It's not just about photos anymore, unfortunately, right?
And I can kind of understand the frustration
here.
Lots of photographers have, but these days are
over because there's just a million photographers and
taking pictures is a skill set, but there's
just a lot of people out there, right?
So what you actually need to focus on
with all these things is thinking about the
story within the photo, the emotional connection within
a photo, right?
Making people relate with either the photo or
the photographer, ideally, right?
Again, why?
Because there's a gazillion photographers out there and
you're not special.
That is until they get to understand your
personality or your why, or the emotions behind
it, like I said.
So again, just this one, take a look
at this picture, like just a bunch of
pictures.
Unfortunately, I don't understand what's going on right
here.
Not even a voiceover.
So this one looks cool.
Let's take a look.
I need to mute this.
But yeah, pictures, cool pictures, but that's just
about it.
Now, let me show you an example from
a former client of mine who was going
through the career mentorship at basically from zero.
And he's doing every, all of these things,
obviously that I talked about right now, pretty,
pretty well.
This is Consti.
He's in somewhat of a different photography niche,
but also a very, very saturated one, the
wildlife photography one.
Let's just take a look at some of
his examples.
Obviously, for example, my photos 10 years ago
versus now.
Right.
And it's also basically just showing pictures, but
suddenly we have a connection.
First of all, we see where we see
him in some crazy gear with a crazy
camera and some crazy setting.
So a story instantly unfolds.
And what is the question in my head?
First of all, what is he doing?
Is he a very professional photographer and what's
going to happen?
Because now I'm invested 10 years ago.
He's been doing this for a while.
He's actually looks pretty young still.
So, you know, then continues to go, but
we'll just talk about the hooks right here.
Not bad photos, but some are kind of
bad.
And then again, my photos now taught a
better or not.
And that doesn't matter in this case, actually
the quality of the photos doesn't matter that
much in this case, because people are ideally
people are going to fight anyway in the
comments.
And that would, that's what makes people go
viral, but it's basically people getting brought on
the journey, right?
It's suddenly you're like with him.
He shows some emotion as well, smiling somewhere
here, you know, for example.
And it's such a different frame if you
ask me, right?
So people are going to be like, like,
how can I create photos?
Like you, man?
Like why did you, how can you travel?
Why, where did you learn all of this
and stuff like this?
And then, you know, people ask you this,
obviously it's the whole monetization avenue because you
can teach people that.
And suddenly your life is just changing directions
and ways you've never basically thought about before.
So whereas if we go back to Stefan's
videos, zero emotional connection, even with the cool,
like these ones are amazing.
I love these, but even there, right?
The connection is just not there because we
don't, we don't even get to the point
of looking at the videos more closely because
we just don't care.
Cause there's so many photos out there, right?
So to recap here, think about what major
pain points your audience actually cares about, and
then make that first frame and hook so
compelling that people just need to keep watching,
right?
Try to figure out whether your hook makes
viewers have a question or not.
So go back to your hooks and think
about what is the question you want people
to pop in their head when watching this.
And in this case, this is not even
about photography.
I don't even know what's going on versus
right.
Something clearly, even one that's not performing.
I mean, that's the same kind of example
right here, but something totally different.
Now I'm anticipating what's the shot and why,
why did it get a hundred K look
beautiful delivers on the promise right away, actually
elevates it.
Beautiful.
Awesome.
All right.
Last one is Ella, a morning coffee creator.
And she says she struggles with views and
a stagnant following.
So let's take a look at one video
from her.
I'm going to put some different music in
there because YouTube's going to flag it, but
remember this video, by the way, we've kind
of pulled her through the hook generator already
at some point in one of our recent
videos, probably you don't remember because nobody seems
to watch this thing, but essentially I have
a free hook generator that where you can
screenshot this whole thing, pull it in.
And here's what the hook generator actually set.
It gave this whole thing a hook score
of three out of 10 said that I
would say this hook sucks.
And I actually agree because there's zero curiosity
and no emotional trigger in there.
Remember very similar to the things we talked
about before.
And if we look here, first of all,
everything looks kind of cluttered.
So we don't even know like it's even
so, so cluttered here that there's no real
focus on this latte and it doesn't kind
of stand out.
And this just clutters it too much.
Plus the text overlays with all the other
things, as well as honestly, this even makes
me more confused here just because it's all
like a mash of a lot of things
coming together based off of all the principles
that we talked about before, planning a picture,
planning a question, actually, and making a first
frame decluttered and, um, actually opening some sort
of curiosity loop, curiosity gap.
Here's what I would do right here.
And for this case, let's go back to
her old friend, Chachabitty, because I don't want
to go downstairs and create a coffee.
I can't do that.
Obviously.
Otherwise I would have a coffee account.
Let's just pull this in there.
And I say, create me an aesthetic Instagram,
real first frame shot of a vanilla blueberry
ice latte and a glass.
I give some context, blah, blah, blah.
It doesn't matter, but let's see what it
comes up with.
Here's what it came up with.
Looks pretty good.
Actually, honestly, it looks pretty, pretty good, man.
It looks so real, but let's just pull
this in to Photoshop and let's just compare
the two examples right there.
As you can see right here, it's a
total difference.
It's like night and day.
And honestly, you might be like, this is
way harder to create.
I need like cameras and stuff like this.
You actually don't.
With your phone, if your phone is less
than, let's say four years old, you can
recreate this shot basically without having any extra
equipment apart from maybe a light.
But then again, if you have a window
in your kitchen, easy to do, right?
Just notice that here, like all the shadows
coming together and the wall, no depth in
the image and stuff like this.
Total difference, right?
Now, with that being said, this looks actually
pretty cool.
Looks actually a little similar here as well.
One thing I can see is that this
blueberry thing, don't ask me if it really
looks like this.
But let's just say.
The first thing I would add here is
a visual hook, a text hook.
Sorry, text hook.
This in and of itself is a visual
hook already.
We don't want to give away like she
does here, vanilla blueberry iced latte.
Because maybe people in her target audience might
be like, okay, this is something weird.
But I would see this, I'd be like,
it's nothing weird.
I just don't feel like it right now.
I'm going to swipe away.
Whereas you want people even like me who
are remotely interested in interesting coffees to think,
oh, that is interesting.
I wonder what that is.
I wonder how it tastes, right?
Thinking about the question.
So the first thing I would do is
basically open the curiosity gap here and say
something like this coffee should not taste good,
for example.
Not, and then, you know, same old spiel.
We're just going to create some background overlay
that Instagram is going to do anyway for
you.
Let's make it white, for example.
Should not taste good.
Instantly better.
One thing from before, instead of playing around
with the font weight, we can play around
with the color picker.
Notice how if I use red, it instantly
looks a little off and cheapish.
It still looks cool, but honestly, honestly, see,
in this case to make things cool, just
play around with it, but not, I mean,
why not?
Let's just use the red one.
Why not?
Put a bunch of dots here just to
open it more.
There you go.
Look at this.
But now my friends, we're getting even deeper
because that in itself is already a strong
hook, way better to this.
Let's open the loops even more.
Cause if you look, this coffee should not
taste good.
Cool.
Opens a loop, but instantly we kind of
see, okay, has something to do with blueberries.
So I'm like, I already kind of get
half the answer.
So I solved it myself.
So there's no need for me to keep
watching.
So here's what I would actually do.
Sneaky little trick that I would do here
to make this even crazier.
First of all, take the blueberries, blur them.
Look at this.
Maybe blur them even more just so people
kind of get a sense of what's going
on.
And then what I want is something like
this.
Honestly, I think yellow is better, but again,
a lot of the times I would actually
recommend you to do it with any, with
Photoshop or with whatever you have until you
kind of get a feel for what looks
good and how to kind of edit elements
in there.
You just play around with it and you
can see this one is actually, see, I
would have never thought about this color.
I'd be like yellow, red, but like just
doing that with the whole composition here.
Now I lost that.
This looks actually pretty, pretty cool.
Now let's do some outer glow because I'm
a nerd.
There you go.
And suddenly you have a first frame where
you're like, what is this?
And then you basically show what to do
and don't give away this thing until all
the way at the end.
But this is all part of another video,
but you could just see night and day
difference.
So if you want to get your accounts
and content reviewed for free, link is in
the description.
And if you implement these things and you're
still stuck, obviously it's because your whole content
strategy is off and the rest of your
video is off.
So watch this video next and I'll walk
you through a process that will make you
go grow better than ever before.